RE: Performance of InSilicoVA for assigning causes of death to verbal autopsies:
  multisite validation study using clinical diagnostic gold standards


Dear Dr. Schiavo,

In this paper we review InSilicoVA, a previously published statistical method
for predicting cause of death from verbal autopsy data. The original work was
published in the Journal of the American Statistical Association as an
estimation framework. The authors of the method also published an open-source
software package that implements their method, which we used in this study.

Verbal autopsy is the only solution for reducing ignorance about who dies of
what in over two thirds of the world's population, where deaths occur without any
contact with the health system. It is also the only feasible method for
gathering data related to monitoring progress towards global development goals,
such as the SDG. Computer algorithms that automatically code cause of death are
essential for creating scalable routine surveillance systems that utilize verbal
autopsy. Many Bloomberg Data for Health countries are in the process of
incorporating routine verbal autopsy into national civil registration and vital
statistics systems. These countries are relying on scientific journals to
support national policy decisions about strategic health information system
choices.

Using the software provided by the original authors, we could not reproduce the
accuracy the authors initially reported. We found results that are consistently
worse than the Tariff method, which we previously showed to be most accurate.
Additionally, we found that the software leads user to use unvalidated inputs
that produce extremely poor results. Countries need independent evaluation and
review of important methods published in respected scientific journals to
provide optimal support for, and confidence in, their policy decisions to
improve health.

Thank you for your consideration.

Sincerely,



Abraham D. Flaxman
Associate Professor of Global Health
Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation
